Add commit squash and submodule handling to git workflow (#19)
dftbplus/develguide: docs/gitworkflow.rst

* In order to ease integration, feature branches should be **short living** and
  pull requests should only contain a **reasonably small amount** of
  changes. Try to chop your implementation into small self containing changes
  and issue those in separate consecutive pull requests. (No one likes or is
  efficiently able to review a code change containing thousands of lines.)

In order to add a feature, you have to do the following steps:

> #. Fork the official (upstream) repository and clone it. (This step you have to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Fork the official (upstream) repository and clone it. (This step allows you to
```

>    do only once.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   do this only once.)
```

> #. Synchronize your `master` branch (``origin/master``) to be identical to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Synchronize your `master` branch (``origin/master``) to match
```

   upstream `master` (``upstream master``).

#. Derive a feature branch from the `master` branch of your forked project.

#. Develop and finish your feature in your feature branch.

> #. Integrate eventual changes form the upstream master branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Integrate eventual changes from the upstream master branch.
```

* In order to ease integration, feature branches should be **short living** and
  pull requests should only contain a **reasonably small amount** of
  changes. Try to chop your implementation into small self containing changes
  and issue those in separate consecutive pull requests. (No one likes or is
  efficiently able to review a code change containing thousands of lines.)

In order to add a feature, you have to do the following steps:

#. Fork the official (upstream) repository and clone it. (This step you have to
   do only once.)

#. Synchronize your `master` branch (``origin/master``) to be identical to
   upstream `master` (``upstream master``).

#. Derive a feature branch from the `master` branch of your forked project.

#. Develop and finish your feature in your feature branch.

#. Squash intermediate irrelevant commits of your feature branch, so that your
   branch only contains 1-2 relevant ones.

#. Synchronize your `master` branch (``origin/master``) to be identical to
   upstream `master` (``upstream master``).

> #. Rebase your feature branch on the update master branch.

Reviewer 2: Quite a change in the git policy. While I personally prefer rebasing over merging master, the rebasing workflow can be tricky for users new to git.

What is the reasoning for the change in the git development strategy?

Reviewer: Second the comment, I think we should discuss this.

   You will then have to derive a new feature branch from the reset `master`
   branch and then add your changes manually to this new feature
   branch. Therefore, to avoid this extra work, make sure you **never change
   your personal `master` branch**, apart from synchronising it with upstream

>    `master`.

Reviewer 2: Italics should be sufficient for highlighting, I don't think bold typeface is needed here.

#. Create you own feature branch::

     git checkout -b some-new-feature

   To develop a new feature you should always create a new branch derived from
   `master`.  You should never work on the `master` branch directly, or merge
   anything from your feature branches onto it. Its only purpose is to mirror
   the status of the upstream `master` branch. The feature branch name should be
   short and descriptive for the feature you are going to implement.

#. Develop your new feature in your local branch. Make sure to add regression

>    tests for your feature in the test directory and to update the documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   testing for your feature in the test directory and update the documentation.
```

   You can commit your changes by ::

       git commit -m "Add some new feature ..."

   You may make multiple commits if your development naturally dividides into
   multiple steps. But please note, that too many commits and especially commits
   containing broken or non-functional code make finding bugs (e.g. by

>    git-bisection) a real pain. Therefore, make sure that your branch only

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   git-bisection) a real pain. Therefore, try to make sure that your branch only
```

   contains *essential commits with working code in each commit*.

   In case, you wish to remove some intermediate commits in your feature branch,
   you may use the interactive rebasing::

     git rebase -i HEAD~N

   where ``N`` should be replaced by the number of commits you would like to
   rearrange/squash. As interactive rebasing changes the git-history, make sure
   that

   * you only squash commits of your feature branch, no earlier ones,

   * you squash your commits before any other branches had been derived from
     your feature branch and

>    * you squash your commits before any other branches had been merged into your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * you squash your commits before any other branches have been merged into your
```

     feature branch.

Merge the changes back into the upstream repository
===================================================

First, make sure, that your feature integrates well into the most recent main
code version. Be aware that the upstream code may have evolved while you were
implementing your feature.

#. Synchronise your `master` branch to the upstream `master`, as written in the
   section `Synchronising to the upstream master branch`_.

#. Integrate any changes that appeared on `master` during your feature
   development.

>    * If your feature branch consists of one/two commits only, it does not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * If your feature branch consists of only one or two commits, it does not
```

>      contain any merge-commits and no other branches had been derived of it (and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     contain any merge-commits and no other branches had been derived from it (and
```

     you are an experienced git user) you may rebase your branch on current
     `master`:

     - Check out your feature branch::
          
         git checkout some-new-feature
       
     - Rebase it on `master`::
           
         git rebase master
     
       Resolve any conflicts arrising during the rebase process.

>    * Othwerise use a normal merge to update your feature branch with the latest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Otherwise use a normal merge to update your feature branch with the latest
```

#. Consider adding regression tests for your feature in the test directory and
   also adding to the documentation for the code.

#. When the feature had been finished, clean up your commit history and squash
   the intermediate commits into a few (e.g. one or two) relevant ones. Issue ::

     git rebase -i HEAD~N

   where ``N`` should be replaced by the number of commits you had committed
   into your feature branch so far. (You can find out the number by looking at
   the git logs.) An interactive editor will pop up and you can select which

>    commits should be squashed together.

Reviewer 2: I find this makes it quite involved with checking the log for the number of commits and I rarely use this in production.
If they should rebase against the default branch anyway, it would be simpler to use

    git rebase -i master

the new feature and develop your next extension starting with the steps
described in section `Synchronising to the upstream master branch`_.

A few notes about Submodules
============================

The DFTB+ program uses several libraries from elsewhere in the project. Some of
those libraries (e.g. MpiFx, ScalapackFx, libNEGF, libMBD) are included within
the repository via the git `submodule` mechanism.

Checking out submodules
-----------------------

When checking out the code, you should pull the submodules with ::

  git submodule update --init --recursive

Updating submodules after changing to a branch
----------------------------------------------

> If you change between branches, the branch you change into may reference a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you switch between branches, the branch you change into may reference a
```

> different commit of a submodule as the branch you just have left. You can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
different commit of a submodule than the branch you just have left. You can
```

recognise this by looking at the status of the submodules after the branch
change, e.g. by issuing ::

  git status

> The directories containing affected submodules will have their status set to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The directories containing affected submodules will have their status set to be
```

"modified". These submodules must be realigned to the correct commit (to the
commit recorded for the current branch) before you do any other work in the

> branch. This you can for all submodules by issuing ::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
branch. You can do this for all submodules by issuing ::
```

  git submodule update --recursive

> If not only the submodule commit id but also the repository URL of a submodule

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If both the submodule commit id and also the repository URL for the submodule
```

> changes when switching to a new branch, you have to synchronise the repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
changes when switching to a new branch, you will have to synchronise the repository
```

URLs first before doing the update, e.g. ::

  git submodule sync --recursive
  git submodule update --recursive
  

Changing submodule content
--------------------------

If you need to modify the submodules, you should fork their respective projects

> and work according their development workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and work according their development workflow (remember that in several cases these are projects developed and maintained by groups not part of the DFTB+ team).
```

If you want to update DFTB+ to use a new version of a given submodule, do the
following steps:

#. Go to the ``origin`` folder containing the submodule.

#. Fetch the relevant branch from the upstream-project of the submodule.

#. Check out the commit which should be used by DFTB+. (If this commit is on a

>    different branch as the one recorded in the `.gitmodules` file in the DFTB+

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   different branch from the one recorded in the `.gitmodules` file in the DFTB+
```
